---
layout:     post
title:      "Q824 Goat Latin"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2019-06-13
author:     "Txing"
header-img: "img/post-bg-py.jpg"
tags:
    - Algorithm
    - Python
    - Easy
    - String
---

# [Goat Latin](https://leetcode.com/problems/goat-latin/)

## Question 

> A sentence `S` is given, composed of words separated by spaces. Each word consists of lowercase and uppercase letters only.
>
> We would like to convert the sentence to "*Goat Latin"* (a made-up language similar to Pig Latin.)
>
> The rules of Goat Latin are as follows:
>
> - If a word begins with a vowel (a, e, i, o, or u), append `"ma"` to the end of the word.
>   For example, the word 'apple' becomes 'applema'.
>    
> - If a word begins with a consonant (i.e. not a vowel), remove the first letter and append it to the end, then add `"ma"`.
>   For example, the word `"goat"` becomes `"oatgma"`.
>    
> - Add one letter `'a'` to the end of each word per its word index in the sentence, starting with 1.
>   For example, the first word gets `"a"` added to the end, the second word gets `"aa"`added to the end and so on.
>
> Return the final sentence representing the conversion from `S` to Goat Latin. 

> **Example 1:**
>
> Input: "I speak Goat Latin"
> Output: "Imaa peaksmaaa oatGmaaaa atinLmaaaaa"

> **Example 2:**
>
> Input: "The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog"
> Output: "heTmaa uickqmaaa rownbmaaaa oxfmaaaaa umpedjmaaaaaa overmaaaaaaa hetmaaaaaaaa azylmaaaaaaaaa ogdmaaaaaaaaaa"

> **Note:**
>
> - `S` contains only uppercase, lowercase and spaces. Exactly one space between each word.
> - `1 <= S.length <= 150`.

## Approach 1: Direct Solution

**Intuition and Algorithm**

Here, we use a direct idea to the problem. 

```python
class Solution(object):
    def toGoatLatin(self, S):
        out = []
        for i, w in enumerate(S.split(' ')): # 返回序号i和第i个单词
            if w[0] not in list('aeiouAEIOU'): # Smart!
                w = w[1:] + w[0]
            out.append(w + 'ma' + 'a'*(i+1))
        return ' '.join(out)


def main():
    S="I speak Goat Latin"
    solution=Solution().toGoatLatin(S)
    print(solution)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

**Complexity Analysis**

- Time Complexity: *O*(*n*), where *n* is the total words of `S`.
- Space Complexity: *O*(*1*).
- Runtime: 28 ms, faster than 16.77% of Python online submissions for Goat Latin.
- Memory Usage: 11.7 MB, less than 85.71% of Python online submissions for Goat Latin.



## Approach 2: Subfunction

**Intuition**

We apply the steps given in the problem in a straightforward manner. The difficulty lies in the implementation.

**Algorithm**

For each `word` in the sentence split, if it is a vowel we consider the word, otherwise we consider the rotation of the word (either `word[1:] + word[:1]` in Python, otherwise `word.substring(1) + word.substring(0, 1)`in Java).

Afterwards, we add `"ma"`, the desired number of `"a"`'s, and a space character.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def toGoatLatin(self, S):
        def convert(word):
            if word[0] not in 'aeiouAEIOU':
                word = word[1:] + word[:1]
            return word + 'ma'

        return " ".join(convert(word) + 'a' * i
                        for i, word in enumerate(S.split(), 1))
```



**Complexity Analysis**

- Time Complexity: *O*($$N^2​$$), where *N* is the length of `S`. This represents the complexity of rotating the word and adding extra `"a"` characters.

- Space Complexity: *O*($$N^2$$), the space added to the answer by adding extra `"a"` characters.

- Runtime: 20 ms, faster than 71.17% of Python online submissions for Goat Latin.

- Memory Usage: 11.8 MB, less than 45.09% of Python online submissions for Goat Latin.

  Next challenges: